DAYDREAMS:

Vakil 1.2F: (a) show localisation cmmutes with finite products or equivalently with finite direct sums; (b) localisation commutes with arbitrary direct sums; (c) localisation fails to commute with infinite products hint take series (1/s) which is infinite product of Q. This means that the map of infinite products induced by the universal property is not always isomorphism; (d) localisation does not always commute with Hom, except when Hom is finitely presented.

Vakil 1.2E: construct the localisation map from M to its localisation, define elements, then check that it is a module, see one subtle point by Borcherds where you need something extra that I cannot remember I think it is no nonzero divisors. I am STUCK only at carefully checking all details.

Vakil 1.2D: verify that maps from A to its localisation have a suitable universal property. Define it, verify it. Map that sends elements to its invertibles must factor uniquely through its localisation.

Vakil 1.2C: show that A to its localisation S^{-1} A is injective if A does not have zero divisors. STUCK: need definition of localisation, injective, and zero divisors.

Vakil 1.2B: initial and final objects in Set, Rings, Top (if they exist), we have initial as empty set, final as singleton set. Actually I get stuck thinking naturally why these must be the correct objects. STUCK on rings, Top is empty and Sierpinski two point space.

Vakil 1.2A: show two initial/terminal objects are uniquely isomorphic. These are representing objects of limits and colimits, therefore as universal properties there is a natural isomorphism between them.

Vakil 1.1D: show that vector space with bases to finite dimensional vector space without bases by describing a suitable inverse functor. STUCK, my best guess is forgetting the base somehow, so use forgetful functor. Really I should try describing these categories in detail.

Vakil 1.1C: show that double dual functor is naturally isomorphic (not just natural transformation) identity functor in category of finite dimensional vector space. STUCK: can't see where finite dimensional is needed here, but I can think of counterexamples without finiteness condition being left shift operator, taking double dual of that will fail. these are from functional analysis.

Vakil 1.1A: UNIMPORTANT EXERCISE. A category in which each morphism is an isomorphism is called a groupoid. (This notion is not important in what we will discuss. The point of this exercise is to give you some practice with categories, by relating them to an object you know well.) (a) A perverse definition of a group is: a groupoid with one object. Make sense of this: One object as symmetries and guarantees closure, isomorphisms guarantee invertible. (b) Describe a groupoid that is not a group. Easy: homotopies with different base points.

Vakil 1.1.B.: If A is an object in a category C , show that the invertible elements of Mor(A,A) form a group (called the automorphism group of A, denoted Aut(A)). What are the automorphism groups of the objects in Set and Vect_k? (free group on objects in Set as generators, general linear group on vector space) Show that two isomorphic objects have isomorphic automorphism groups (use the isomorphism as a way to factor through the automorphic group, this is an example of a universal property). (For readers with a topological background: if X is a topological space, then the fundamental groupoid is the category where the objects are points of X, and the morphisms x to y are paths from x to y, up to homotopy. Then the automorphism group of x0 is the (pointed) fundamental group Pi 1(X, x0). In the case where X is connected, and first fundamental group of X is not abelian, this illustrates the fact that for a connected groupoid — whose definition you can guess — the automorphism groups of the objects are all isomorphic, but not canonically isomorphic.)

Homological dimension as supremum of n such that Ext^n(E,F) is nonzero. Correspond with enough injectives and projectives.

Completion of measure space: (X, A, mu) be measure space, X is set, A is sigma algebra, mu be measure. Let completion A denote all usbsets which are a union of a set in A and a null set. Show that if A- is a sigma algebra, there is an unique extension of the measure mu to it. Okay, null set have measure 0, so really I don't understand what you mean by extension, A- is sigma algebra, A is sigma algebra and closed under countable unions? Best guess is you need Caratheodor's extension theorem. Did not try thinking abotu using symmetric differences and equivalence of sets. https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/713084/completion-of-a-measure-space

Punctured gyrotop is open subset U of X where X is Spec(C[x,y,z]/(xz,yz)) by deleting the origin (x,y,z) from X. Compute sheaf of rings O_X(U). I saw the hint and exercise from Evan Chen, or O(U disjoint union V) = O(U) * O(V), distinguished open sets, affine scheme, sheaves on a base. Try graphing xz, yz these are varieties sort of.

Vakil exercise: presheafs F(U) global sections as Homs(U -> Y), U is some sort of open, these are sections of a map to X. There is some sort of basic poset condition, and sheaves can be generalised from topological not to use inclusions. https://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.09651. Extend on this example: idea is to have some Alexandrov topology, define preordered set with reflex and transitive, then poset has antisymmetry. Define Alexandrov topology. Now change inclusions and restriction properties, and you can now define cellular sheaves with a suitable universsal property of base sheaves. Cellular sheaf is functor from category of poset to category of algebraic structures/groups. Strictly speaking equip poset with Alexandrov topology, these are presheaf on Alexandrov topological space.

Representative of equivalence class as representation theory? Pick space X, pick special equivalence relation (usually homotopy), then you can have some sort of nice classification.

Build a concrete example with kernels as limits, cokernels as colimits. It is quite easy, these are equalisers and coequalisers.

Vakil exercise: stalks as colimit, equivalence relation, F is sheaf of rings, then stalk F_p is also a ring. Figuring out how to add and subtract things on stalk, we add on intersections,if they are the same open functions, then take the same restrictions so this is well defined, then you realise it maps all into it so it must be a colimit.EASIEST EXERCISE: stalks are colimits of sections. Now stalks are local rings if X are geometric spaces. Interestijng, does it make sense to say maximal ideal to be some sort of colimit.

Exercise: define tangent space using stalks. https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/3657278/stalks-of-manifolds set of pointed derivations from the sheaf of rings on whole space O_X(X) to complex numbers, this will fail on constants, so be careful, use germs of functions O_{X,p}, this makes sense, tangents can only be defined on a point if you take the whole space it just vanish. Simplest example is simple curve. How do we think about this example more carefully?

Compare sheaves as O-modules, then stalks as O_p modules.

What is an action of a ring? I understand why is an action of a ring (recycle action of rings to get representation ring because you want to swap out groups you want).

Show that anything not in the maximal ideal is invertible, let stalk of p quotiented out by maximal ideal. I am stuck on this since I have yet to think of a concrete example first.

Relate modules with representation theory, abelian group with action of a ring this is representation theory.

Tangent space, every point has a vector space, then you want to be very nice, then you can some sort of localisation, make this make senese. These are a sort of sheaf O-module.

Vakil exercise: F is sheaf of X, then pushforward Pi_x F is a sheaf of Y, consider preimage on the pushforward, then take restrictions of set on the preimage sheaf, this is a sheaf. Sheaf of functions on X, pushforward to Y, it is still a sheaf of rings.

Give examples where it is cheap to answer, but not cheap to answer why you care, so delay answers.

Construct example of presheaves, maps of presheaves, pushfowards, pullbacks on your favourite space.

Distinguish between sections and stalks naturally. I could not really distinguish them.

Same germ near point if locally, honest open neighbourhood they are the same. MAke this make sense.

Vakil: distinguish between constant sheaf and locally constant sheaves as an exercise.

Construct formal power series degree n poly by taking first n terms is a limit as an example of a categorical limit.

Why is a cofinal condition?

Why are functions that are called O for the sheaf of functions? I think it comes from the Erlangen program, O means holomorphic function.

Construct example of Homs in integral domain and Homs in fields. Fraction fields in terms of adjunction. You need to be very careful. Hom(A, k) = Hom(K(A, k)), forget k is a field into integral domain, K(A) is fraction field. Example: adjunction sort of fails with Z and Z mod 2.

How does Grassmannians generalsie projective space? Parameterised k dimensional linear subsapce as C^n, so we have G(k, n)? P^{n-1} is G(1, n).

Geometric spaces locally look like open subsets of R^n.

How does one relate gcd and abelian as some of naturality property relating order of g, order of h, product of gh equal to order |g||h| and that abelian is the correct work for natural.

Why is an orbifold?

How does moduli space relate to vector bundles, they are both parameterised by some space? See AGITTOC where Vakil asked for this.

Moduli space as universal property? See Vakil AGITTOC.

Exercise in Folland (pg. 24), if M is the sigma algebra generate by epsilon, then M is the union of sigma algebras generated by F as F ranges over all countable subsets of Epsilon. Got stuck here, really I need to understand what it means for a sigma algebra generated by some set, then construct some sort of mapping from subsets of epsilon to sigma algebra. The hint says I need to show that the Eps itself is a sigma algebra.

Calculate centraliser of matrix [a 0; b d] in GL_2(R). Stuck at what sort of elements are even possible in GL_2(R).

Combine all definitions of matroid: https://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/cheunen/publications/2015/matroids/matroids.pdf

Logical functor? I was motivated by this by considering the inclusion and exclusion principle?

Nakayama's lemma like inverse function theorem: https://mathoverflow.net/questions/61446/how-to-memorise-understand-nakayamas-lemma-and-its-corollaries/61448#61448

Understand Galois correspondence of subgroups and path connected coverings. See Kuga, Galois’s dream.

Pullback as induced fibration with fibre bundles?

Hawaiian ring has no universal covering.

Ramification points and branch points of compact Riemann surfaces.

Lifting property of covering, means we can find something f such that g composed with f gives h, given g and h.

Covering space and analytic continuation? https://mathoverflow.net/questions/479125/analytic-continuation-gives-a-covering-space-and-not-just-a-local-homeomorphism

Smith normal form for homology?

Transmission and blocking zeroes of transfer function?

Invariant factor calculation.

Invariant factor as free rank of Betti number of module?

Extended Euclid's algorithm?

Spec C[x] to Spec R[x]

Dense image for Spectrum? What is the definition of this? See adjectives of projects?

Chain? Refinement? Simplicity? Composition series?

Homology of finite simplicial complex over integers, try two by two matrix https://eric-bunch.github.io/blog/calculating_homology_of_simplicial_complex

Make this make sense: If one wants to summarize our knowledge of physics in the briefest possible terms, there are three really fundamental observations: (i) Space-time is a pseudo-Riemannian manifold M, endowed with a metric tensor and governed by geometrical laws. (ii) Over M is a vector bundle X with a nonabelian gauge group G. (iii) Fermions are sections of (???). R and F are not isomorphic; their failure to be isomorphic explains why the light fermions are light and presumably has its origins in a representation difference A in some underlying theory. All of this must be supplemented with the understanding that the geometrical laws obeyed by the metric tensor, the gauge fields, and the fermions are to be interpreted in quantum mechanical terms.

Spectral sequences topics: Leray spectral sequence, sheaf cohomology, pushforward, chain complex, fibrations, derived functors, grothendieck spectral, chain complex; visualisation; cup product; cohomology ring; differential graded algebra; exact couple; derived couple; Bockstein; serrel atiyah-hirezburch for k theory; filtered complex; hodge-de rham spectral

Geometric invariant theory topics: Isbell dual, quotients, action groupoids, moduli spaces, moduli stacks; reductive group on projective variety; orbifold; gauge group; bridgeland stability conditions; deligne mumford stack, stability, stable vector bundles

Atiyah Singer topics: elliptical differential operator, analytic index, compact manifold, topological index, Riemann-Roch, gauss bonnet, Pontryagin classes; differential operator symbol; fredholm operator; todd class; mixed cohom class; chern character; classifying space; thom isomorphism; index problem; grothendieck riemann roch; teleman index theorem, many index theorem, Hirzeburch-Thom characteristic classes;

Symplectic reduction topics: almost Kahler manifolds; cotangent bundles; 1-form; Hamiltonian; symplectic gradient; Hamiltonian group action; moment maps; convex polytope; conjugates; equivariant moment maps; moment image as n-simplices

Deformation theory examples: moduli space; functor of points; family; fibres of same type; isomorphism classes of vector bundles of fixed rank; isomorphism classes of subvarieties of a fixed varieties with fixed hilbert poly; iso classes of regular maps; stability condition; coherent sheaf; vector bundle; nonsingular varieties; moduli problem functor; representable of moduli problem; art category; curvilinear deformation; first order deformation; tangent space; obstructions; embedded deformations; dgla philosophy; deformation of nonsingular varieties; deformation of bundle; Cech differential; deformation fo smooth embedded varieties; Kuranishi model; germ of moduli space; T1 lifting technique;

Lefschetz pencils: hyperplane slices; hyperplane theorem; eigenvalues, ordinary double point, Hessian nondegeneracy; dimension counting environment; real morse theory; vanishing cycle; Lefschetz thimble; monodromy; hard Lefschetz;

Moduli spaces topics: stable bundles; parameter space; deformations; ringed space; germs; pullbacks; moduli problem; classify up to equivalence; base spacel family pullbacks; example of families; deformation of vector bundles; hilbert poly and flatness; functor of points; fine moduli space; universal family; coarse moduli space; jump phenomenon; quot functor; symmetric algebra; plucker embedding to show Grassmannian is projective smooth irreducible variety; simpson's construction; Fieseker stability; 

Ordinary double point topics: hypersurface singularities; nodes; Deligne-Mumford compactification; pencil of sections; Morse lemma; smoothing; resolving; Milnor fibre; symplectic geometry; Lagrangian submanifold; vanishing cycles; monodromy, holomony; Dehn twist; Picard-Lefschetz formula; resolution of singularities using birational map compare to this; Cartier divisor; Atiyah flop; algebraic surgery;

Tropical curves topics: amoebas; moment map; clifford torus; graph of amoeba; tropicalisation; tropical curves; corner loci; tropical semiring; weights and balancing; relation with plane conic; degree and number of tentacles;newton polygons; combinatorial object; example of reducing algebraic geometry to combinatorics; Puiseux series; 

Weil conjectures topics: Grothendieck group of nicely compactible differential manifolds; universal Euler characteristic; Ax-Grothendieck; Lefschetz principle for first order logic; profinite completion; spreading out; counting points; Grothendieck ring of varieties; motivic measures; de Rham fundamental group; algebraic envelope; zeta functions; rational functions, functional equation, Betti numbers and related to Riemann hypothesis; Hasse-Weil for elliptic curves; Weil cohomology theory; Poincare duality; Kunneth formula;

Hodge theory topics: hodge star operator; hodge theorem; stokes theorem; de rham cohom; exterior derivative; laplacian operator as linear operator called harmonic; hodge theorem; poincare duality; betti numbers, weitzenbock formula; fundamental form; Kahler manifold; dolbeault theorem

Koszul duality topics: Artin-Wedderburn, semisimple algebras; Koszul algebras, Koszul dual; ext algebra; augmentation; poincare poly; quadratic duality; quadratic algebra as quotients of tensor algebras; Koszul resolutions; derived Koszul duality; differential graded algebra; rational homotopy theory; Quillen's model; Whitehead product; massey product; minimal algebra;

Toric varieties: Polytopes and symplectic toric varieties, Givental's quotient construction, line bundles and divisors, Fans and algebro-geometric toric varieties, symplectic manifold, sympleictic form, n-torus, C* complexification of S1, moment maps, hamiltonian, atiyah guillemen sternberg, delzant polytope, fan, toric blow up, combinatorial structure; 

Line bundles and kodaira embedding: line bundles give rational maps of proj space; very ample, ample, sem ample; test for Kahler manifold projective using Kodaira embedding theorem; ample line bundles; Kleiman's criterion; when embedding fails; line bundle not generated by sections; minimal model program; bend and break lemma; Kodaira dimension; rational curves; canonical modules; positivity; moduli space;

Blowing up examples: blow up C^2 at origin, blowing up affine variety along ideal; blowing up complex manifolds at points; definition of blow up of affine noetherian scheme; exceptional divisors; build up to most general definition of blow ups.

Classifying space, equivariant cohom, localisation: Grassmanians, infinite qutient Grassmanians, frame bundle construction; principal bundles; weakly contractibles; homotopy groups; Hopf fibration; classifying space; universal bundle; joins and meets of spaces; bijective correspondence between principal G bundles up to isomorphisms and BG spaces; equivariant cohomology for smooth continuous group action; localisation using excision, thom isomorphism, atiyah-bott-berline-vergne, generic cubic surface 27 lines using this.

Chern classes: classify all nonisomorphic vector bundles, topological invariant to distinguish classes of vector bundle; rank of vector bundle; local trivialisations; smooth sections; clutching functions; generic section; transversal section; Poincare duality on fundamental class gives Euler class and Chern class; total Chern class.

Morse theory and witten complexes phenomena: morse theory fixing smooth function has height function then differentia data completely determines smooth manifold; height function of circle embeded in real line with critical points; height function of torus on real line; nondegeneracy of critical points where df has single zero or vanishes to first order; consider Hessian nonsinular; morse function if critical points nondegenerate; morse lemma; riemannian metric; grad f direction of greatest increase with gradient flow; compact manifold is homotopy equivalent to cell complex, decompose to morse-smale-witten complex; unstable manifolds and stable manifolds; borken flow line; chain groups; morse homology isomorphic to singular homology; tilted torus, alternate proof of poincare duality by replacement of f by -f.

Complex manifolds phenomena: almost complex structure, smooth varying endomorphism, complexified cotangent space direct sum decomposition to eigenspaces; lie bracket to study this; nijenhuis tensor to measure torsion; newlander-nierenberg for manifold complex; exterior derivative operator; dolbeault cohomology; hermitian manifold for manifold M, J orthogonal transform to riemannian metric g, Kahler condition is associated two form omega is closed; holomorphic coordinates.

Poincare duality and cohomology phenomena (1) simplicial homology; fundamental group; singular cohomology; Mayer Vietoris; poincare duality, homology is H_k is dual to cohomology H^{n-k} for X^n; compute a bunch of homoology groups.

Spec and Proj phenomena: (1) algebraically closed; (2) duality of space and ring; (3) Gelfand-Naimak classification of C* algebras, C* algebra associated to Hausdorff compact topological space get spectrum of C* algebra exercise to forget C(X) and get complexification of X; (4) finitely generated unital commutative algebras over C corresponding to affine varieties using Hilbert's basis theorem; (5) show case these phenomena: coordinate rings, localisations to fields, bijection between radical ideals and affine varieties, contravariant equivalence between affine varieties and category of finitely generated reduced algebra without nilopotent elements, quotient is reduced if I is radical, nullstellensatz; (6) C^{n+1} remove {0} over C*, use Hermitian on C^{n+1}, get projective space, homogenous ideals, projective varieties, homogenous spectrum, rewritie dualities of Spec and Proj, degree genus formula, Zariski topology, coordinates as linear functionals.

Frechet spaces?

Schwartz notations?

Gorenstein ring?`

Support of function, closure, test function, analytic vs compact support and infinitely differentiable, constructing new test functions.

Nerve theorem?

Partition of unity definition does not make sense to me?

Matrix mortality problem: undecidable for 3 x 3 in 1970s.

Poincare-Hopf index theorem?

Combinatorial characters? Perfect matching? Pleytheism? Polynomial functors? Frobenius character of a permutation action?

Spec and Proj.

del Pezzo surface?

rational conic bundles?

algebraic K theory

Motivic cohomology

Higher Chow groups

Elliptic parabolic regularity theory?

Lenstras definition of Euclidean domain

Smooth, piecewise linear, and topological manifolds compare and contrast

Cluster algebra

Weak derivative

What is the best way to write down Frobenius reciprocity in terms of tensor products, resolutions and induced representations?

Proj is to Spec as projective varieties are to affine varieties. To elaborate on this, just as Spec takes a ring and gives you an affine scheme by putting a structure sheaf on the space of prime ideals with the Zariski topology, Proj takes a graded ring and gives you a (general) scheme by putting a structure sheaf on the space of homogeneous prime ideals with the Zariski topology. I'm leaving out some details, but you said you wanted an "intuitive" understanding.

Complex character of finite group is Q linear combination induced from cyclic subgroup? What does this mean?

Over ZF, ultrafilter lemma is equivalent to maps from X to Sierpinski two point set with product topology is compact. Make this make sense?

Over ZF: The ultrafilter lemma implies that a countable union of finite sets is always countable. Interesting, I didn’t know we need to make this assumption. It also implies that every countable family of non-empty finite sets has a choice function, which is equivalent to Kónig's lemma. Make this make sense?

Examples of weak choice principles: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/3001455/how-strong-are-weak-choice-principles

Ring with Jacobson radical (Gupta-Khurana-Khurana-Lam 2009): TFAE, transpose of every invertible square matrix over R is invertible; R/rad(R) is commutative

For monoid: TFAE: pullback of triple cross to double cross to single cross; G is a group.

Gupta 1970, over every division ring D, not a field, there is an invertible size 2 square matrix whose transpose is not nilpotent

Let R be a ring. Writing Tr for the trace of a matrix, TFAE: (1) Whenever A,B,C are square matrices of the same size over R, we have Tr(ABC) = Tr(CB).
(2) R is the zero ring.

Exactly 9 model category structure in set? https://www.matem.unam.mx/~omar/notes/modelcatsets.html

https://www.matem.unam.mx/~omar/notes/surprises.html

Partial retrospective, like taking a partial derivative looking to the future

Probe the upper bound, averages don’t matter

Affine and projective varieties and schemes.

Complex manifolds and the Kähler condition.

Levi-Civita and Chern connections.

Minimal primes: codimension 0 (why?)

Frobenius theorem on real division algebras?

Make this make sense: pushforwards are nice on sections bad on stalks, pullbacks are nice on stalks bad on sections

https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/313940/cohomology-with-coefficients-in-the-sheaf-of-distributions

Extension of scalars?

Pushforward and inverse image of sheaves as adjoints?

How to prove that Reg(X) is open for reduced k-schemes locally of finite type, but things like J-2 rings arose and you simply can't find a unified reference that does all of this in a linear way. Qing Liu's book has some of this but I didn't really like the treatment.

If X and Y are smooth projective varieties and F a sheaf on X, do we have something like H^p(X x Y, pr\_1^\* F) = H^p(X,F) \otimes H^0(Y,O\_Y)? Yes, but need flat to prove by induction on affines that cover X, use pushforward?

Closed map lemma?

Cell complex as quotient space of disjoint union of cells

https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2010/10/21/245a-problem-solving-strategies/

Bona Turner Tao Combinatorics

Codensity theorem?

Ambient homotopy theory?

Linear map lemma in Axler, try using a proof from the integers

Index notation example size or orbit is [N: stabiliser]??

As it stands, it looks like you're proving that every completely simple semigroup (with an idempotent) has a unique idempotent. This is not true, as otherwise every finite completely simple semigroup is a group (take the direct product of a non-trivial rectangular band and a group as a counter example). To make it more clear, the definition of a primitive idempotent needs updating. Let $E$ be the set of idempotents of a semigroup $S$ without zero. Then $\prec$, defined by $e \prec f$ if $ef = fe = e$ for $e,f \in E$, is a partial ordering of $E$. An idempotent is primitive if it minimal under this partial ordering. In other words, the idempotent $e$ is primitive if for all $f \in E$ we have $ef = fe = f \implies e = f$. Then the calculation you did shows that every idempotent is primitive.

Frattini subgroup?

Imagine you have a scalar valued continuous functions defined on an open cover of a topological space And that all the functions agree on intersections  Then you can glue all these functions to give a continuous global scalar valued function 
This is the idea of gluing?

s_P is an element of the stalk F_P, which by definition is an equivalence class of sections over neighborhoods of P. s(P) is a section in F(V_P), where V_P is some open neighborhood of P, representing s_P

I'm not sure where to ask this but can someone explain to me the definition of a symplectic lattice?  Is the period lattice of a riemann surface an example?

Tor functor does not detect torsion

Combinatorial Set Theory by Halbeisen

https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2009/10/19/grothendiecks-definition-of-a-group/ A group is identifiable with a (set-valued) sheaf on the category of simplicial complexes such that the morphisms associated to collapses…

Galois group

Computation of Galois groups: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/45893/how-to-find-the-galois-group-of-a-polynomial

Chain of closed irreducibles corresponds (locally, dually) to a chain of primes. so a minimal prime (i.e. has no proper prime 'subideals') corresponds to a maximal closed irreducible set a.k.a. an irreducible component

Polarisation is an I sogeny to the dual abelian variety, and a principal polarization is a polarization which is an isomorphism?

Hermitian pairing

Euler product?

Prism map?

Blakers Massey

Cellular spectra? General spectra?

Lebsegue measure as interval coverings?

Exterior domain

Polish space, Lusin space, Suslin space, Radon spaces and probability theory: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish_space

“Closed category” with any monoidal product, like the hom-tensor adjunction, so cartesian there definitely refers to the cartesian product structure on C as opposed to a tensor product.

"Cartesian fibration" is named because of the existence of cartesian lifts for morphisms, which are named that because the paradigmatic example of a cartesian fibration is the codomain functor C^{\to} -> C for a category C that has all pullbacks (i.e. the existence of Cartesian squares.)

Referring to pullbacks as Cartesian squares is a bit more questionable than referring to Cartesian products, but you can justify it on the grounds that a Cartesian square is just a Cartesian product that lives in a slice category, products are pretty close to pullbacks in the grand scheme of things as they're both fundamental kinds of limits

Descartes did not just describe the plane as the product of a line with itself, he basically invented analytic algebraic geometry, which is the study of polynomial curves in n-dimensional affine k-space - which are exactly the equalizers of polynomial functions k^n -> k. So we are justified in naming both products and equalizers after Descartes, thus the term "Cartesian category" for a category with products and equalizers.

For curves the arithmetic and geometric genus are defined by finding a replacement smooth curve and taking its genus. For the geometric genus: the normalization. For the arithmetic genus: the deformation to smoothness. For higher dimensional compete varieties, the geometric genus is again defined by normalization, but the normalization isn’t smooth. The geometric genus is h^0,n, while you propose h^0,1. h^0,n is better because it is birationally invariant.

Every algebraic variety is birational to a projective variety (Chow's lemma). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Birational_geometry

Hironaka's 1964 theorem on resolution of singularities

Show equivalence of definitions: variety is irreducible iff every dense open subset is connected iff every sufficiently small open dense subset. Sufficiently small dense opens are a birational invariant

Example of  "affine basis" of the plane z=1 in R3? I'm curious if there is an element of this basis that corresponds to the origin. Is <1,0,1>,<0,1,1>, <0,0,1> an affine basis? A set is an affine basis of when you translate it so that one element is the origin, the rest forms a basis

Exterior power?

Prove rings are unital, then every left artinian ring is also left Noetherian, so you have both ACC and DCC

component of a point x from X is a union of all connected subsets of  X that contain x

Orientability table

Cofinal has nothing to do with categorical duality

Integral over as element vs integral over as field? If K is integral over F (K,F are fields) then thats the same as saying K is algebraic over F right?

Compare definitions of various fundamental groups. 

Absolutely irreducible meaning?

Feit Thompson theorem?

Poincaré duality.

Cohomology, differential forms, currents, de Rham theory, Thom isomorphism.

Morse theory and the Witten complex.

Vector bundles and Chern Classes.

Equivariant cohomology (classifying spaces sort of explained), localisation.

Blowing up.

Blow ups and blow downs.

Symplectic blow ups.

Line bundles and the minimal model programme.

Kodaira embedding, bend and break.

Toric varieties I.

Polytopes and symplectic toric varieties.

Toric varieties II.

Givental's quotient construction, line bundles and divisors.

Toric varieties III.

Fans and algebro-geometric toric varieties.

Koszul resolutions and Koszul duality.

Hodge theory.

Cohomology, motives, point counting.

Tropical curves.

The ordinary double point.

Vanishing cycles, symplectic geometry.

The simple flop.

Geometric Invariant theory.

Symplectic reduction.

Moment maps and the Kempf-Ness theorem.

Stable bundles and simple bundles.

Moduli spaces.

Lefschetz pencils in algebraic and symplectic geometry.

Mixed Hodge structures.

Spectral sequences.

Atiyah-Singer index theorem.

Feynman path integrals.

Higgs bundles.

Deformation theory.

Virtual cycles.

Explain: is that an algebraic scheme over a field can be covered by a finite number of spectra of finitely generated algebras. Those affine schemes that arise as the spectrum of a finitely generated algebra over a field are called algebraic, and the intuition behind this is that they are defined by a finite set of polynomials in a finite number of symbols. I think this terminology and point of view is common in the context of group schemes, see for example the notes of J.S. Milne

2 of 6 properties of composable triple of arrows? How does one understands this definition? For the class of weak equivalences.

3 by 3 lemma?

ABP estimate for elliptic equations?

Abel's theorem?

Add more details on algebraic group and algebraic group schemes.

Additive White Gaussian Noise channel?

Adeles? Why do this, why embed a field into its direct product of all completion.

Affine communication lemma? See Vakil. If affine open subset Spec A injects into X has property X, then for any f in A, then Spec A_f injects into X has this property. Part II, if (f_1, ... f_...n)= A Spec A_fi injects into A for all i so Spec A injects into X.

Affine versus projective?

Alexandrov topology?

All norms are equivalent in finite dimensional vector space. This is not really intuitive, and there are a lot of details in the proof.

Also how does one explain that using a proper Klelisi or Eilenberg-Moore category gives Markov chains? What are the differences?

Amenability in group theory?

Applications of the continuous mapping theorem?

Are there group extensions of subgroups to proper groups? Is there a word for this? This is similar to field extensions?

Artin map?

Artin-Wedderburn?

Atiyah-Singer index theorem?

Automorphisms of compact Riemann surfaces?

Autoregressive model?

Azumaya algebra?

Baer-Specker?

Balog-Szemeredi-Gowers theorem?

Banach space representation https://ivv5hpp.uni-muenster.de/u/pschnei/publ/pap/iwasawa.pdf

Base change of closed immersion stays closed immersion proof using locality.

Base of a residue field?

Bernstein theorem?

Bertini's theorem

Binomial theorem consequences?

Bochner's theorem

Bombieri-Vinogradov theorem?

Borcherds proof of Lasker Noether motivates all the definitions to look at it

Borel subgroup? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borel_subgroup

Borsuk-Ulam theorem

Bounded variation vs monotonic function?

Braid lemma? https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/braid+lemma

Brauer-Siegel formula?

Brenier's theorem?

Brill-Noether matrix?

Can you use the maximum modulus principle to define holomorphic function?

Canonical isomorphism?

Cantor function differentiable almost everywhere to 0, but not absolutely continuous.

Capacity with cost? How is the cost applied?

Carleson embedding?

Casorati-Weierstrass proof of essential singularity.

Cauchy integral formula?

Cauchy potential?

Cauchy's integral formula?

Cauchy's theorem

Central limit theorem applications?

Chain equivalences?

Characteristic fluctuation scale?

Chebotarev density theorem

Christoffel symbols?

Clariaut's theorem and why is it true?

Class number formula? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Class_number_formula

Class number problem?

Classical completion? https://kskedlaya.org/prismatic/sec_derived-complete.html

Classification of singularities?

Clearer example of the decomposition of SU(2)?

Closure of test functions?

Coarea formula?

Compactly supported smooth functions dense in L1 by approximating characteristic function on an interval.

Complementary slackness? Easiest working example?

Complete partial orders as cartesian closed category of directed complete partial orders?

Completion of ring construction inverse limit, do not understand what do you mean by modulo a filtration of an abelian group.

Complexity and Real Computation?

Connecting homomorphism?

Consequences of the fundamental theorem of calculus?

Construction on the Haar measure on locally compact groups? Explore this in the context of representation theory.

Contravariance of universal property, example: there is a unique map from scheme S to spectrum of Z, scheme S can be represented by this unique map. The proof relies on the fact that there is a unique (ring) homomorphism from the integers to any other ring. This is contravariant! Why is that? Can we complete this proof so that it clarifies going on. Note, a ring is an abelian group with an additional monoidal structure given by tensor product?

Convex conjguate? Lagrange duality? Dual problem? https://cs.stanford.edu/people/davidknowles/lagrangian_duality.pdf

Coordinate process as stochastic process?

Counterexample that L^2 convergence not implying convergence.

Cousin problems?

Covering lemma?

Curry and apply as Scott continuous?

Cyclotomic fields to prove quadratic reciprocity?

Darboux continuous?

Darboux theorem

De Morgan algebra? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_Morgan_algebra Can do this I am lazy.

Decomposition group?

Denotational semantics?

Densely defined?

Diagonal embeddings?

Difference between homotopy group and homology group: main difference is that homology group are abelianised in some sense.

Difference between uniquely decodable code versus instantaneous code.

Differential geometry using locally ringed spaces? See Sheaves on Manifolds by Kashiwara.

Dilworth's theorem?

Directed joins versus normal joins?

Directed suprema?

Dirichlet functional?

Dirichlet principle

Dirichlet's theorem?

Dirichlet's unit theorem?

Do not really understand the duality between ideals and filters. Need to break it down in terms of definitions in ways I could understand.

Do not understand simple example of power series ring being faithfully flat BUT NOT free.

Do not understand spanning trees from linear algebra.

Do not understand the definition of Prufer domains: Prufer domain: commutative ring without zero divisors, such that every non zero finitely generated ideal is invertible.

Do not understand the purpose of the Kolmogorov consistency theorem? The proof also relies axiom of choice? https://fabricebaudoin.blog/2012/03/25/lecture-5-the-daniell-kolmogorov-existence-theorem/

Do not understand the significance of the existence of nonempty affine algebraic sets for all proper ideals in poly ring k[X_1, ..., X_n]. This just means it is nonempty if proper?

Dominated convergence theorem?

Don't understand the essentially surjective example where R is isomorphic to poly ring quotiented out by radical ideal.

Don't understand the intuition the contraction mapping theorem and why is it important.

Don’t fully understand Borcherds complete computation of Tor over finitely generated abelian groups.

Don’t fully understand how tensor and Hom are adjunctions? Constant is left adjoint to limits which are right adjoint. Colimit is left adjoint to constant which are right adjoint

Don’t fully understand locality and glueing? Why do we need these in contrast when we do open covers that do all the work for us. See separated presheaf, sheaf, scheme constructions.

Don’t understand Zhen Lin’s comment: usual five lemma follows from the short five lemma: factor each morphism appearing in the rows into an epimorphism followed by a monomorphism.

Don’t understand how to keep it in head? Kunneth formula. Duality

Don’t understand measurable functors and the fact that the realisation of a probability law is a natural transformation from the random variable functor to the measurable functors? Where in the construction do you want the measurable functor to use the axiom of dependent choice?

Don’t understand the definition of quasiinverse? https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/weak+inverse. Princial of equivalence?

Don’t understand the salamander lemma, it’s proof and its importance.

Don’t understand what are covering sieves, local isomorphisms and separated presheaves?

Easy proof of connectedness of R?

Eberlein-Smulian theorem?

Edmond's matching polytope theorem?

Egorov's theorem

Eigenvalues of Frobenius map?

Eilenberg Maclane spectrum? (Hint: use Eilenberg Maclane spaces as representing object)

Eisenbud says II1 to II4 as vocabulary building. But basic results are hidden here.

Eisenstein criterion?

Embedding? General examples? https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/embedding

Empty set: $(1)$ as ideal or the unit ideal. Useful in showing (quasi)compactness of Zariski topology?

Entropy rate of stationary Markov chain? https://www2.isye.gatech.edu/~yxie77/ece587/Lecture6.pdf

Ergodic theorem? What are some important classes of this?

Essential extension?

Euler class?

Euler-Lagrange formula

Everywhere differentiable, derivative not continuous.

Example of projective resolution: Koszul complex of a regular sequence which is a free resolution of the ideal generated by the sequence. Still not sure how this is even after seeing what Koszul complexes are.

Examples of a cofree functor.

Explicit calculation of Jordan canonical form over C to be GL(n,C)?

Explore https://notebookarchive.org/frequencies-of-named-theorems-in-arxiv-math-mathoverflow-and-stackexchange-mathematics--2020-09-8sywjs5/.

Exterior powers of vector space?

Fano’s inequality proof? Motivation (hint: channel coding theorem)

Fatou's lemma: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatou%27s_lemma

Field of one element?

Figure out a description of Chevalley's structure theorem?

Figure out easier proof of Goursat's lemma and Zassenhaus' butterfly lemma, Schreier refinement theorem and the Jordan Holder theorem.

Fill in fundamental theorem of quotient groups.

Final topology (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Final_topology), cofinal topology? Final topology is coinduced, weak, colimit, inductive. Quotient topology of quotient space is final topology.

Find generalisations or good definitions that help prove the Baire category theorem.

Finetti theorem?

Finish the proof of closed subspaces of Banach spaces are Banach spaces.

Finite dimensional representation of compact group always unitary: proof by sticking inner product and integrate?

Finite field F_p, are there irreducible polynomials of each degree? Yes and how to compute them?

Finite division ring necessarily commutative proof and why?

Finitely co-generated? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2239502/an-example-about-finitely-cogenerated-modules

Fix the corollary on quantiative regularity for the closed graph theory.

Flat cohomology?

Flatness: Let $f : X \rightarrow S$ be a morphism of schemes, and assume that $S$ is reduced. reduced? (i) If $S$ is a smooth curve then $f$ is called (geometrically) flat if no component of $X$ is mapped to a single point in $S$. Here by component we mean an irreducible or embedded component, i.e. (in the affine picture) the subvarieties of $X$ occurring in the primary decomposition of the ring that defines $X$. Why does this make sense?

Forcing produces ZFC?

Forms of Cauchy-Schwarz?

Four lemma?

Four-fold way?

Fourier inversion theorem?

Fourier-Mukai transform?

Free probability and non-commutative random variables.

Freiman's theorem?

Frobenius reciprocity?

Frobenius theorem?

Fubini's theorem? Using measure theory? Tonelli's theorem? See Wikipedia for proof key steps, this one is good.

Function types are the same as internal homs. Internal logic of the category as function type. Make this make sense? https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/internal+logic

Functions on annulus and Laurent series?

Functorial factorisation of maps?

Fundamental finiteness principle in algebraic geometry? See pg. 71 of Eisenbud.

Fundamental theorem of Galois theory?

Galois field in algebraic codes?

Galois group and why does a symmetric monoidal stable infinity 1 category suitable for this? See Kuga's Galois dream.

Galois group, filtration of it, local field extension.

Galois insertion and coinsertion?

Galois theory to prove impossible trisections?

Gauss-Bonnet theorem?

Genus of curve? Arithmetic genus? Serre duality?

Geometric Nakayama? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/3895881/geometric-nakayamas-lemma

Girsanov's theorem?

Global regular functions proof to be coordinate ring of variety.

Godel incompleteness

Godel's incompleteness theorem?

Good definition of operator in contrast to endofunctor.

Gram-Schmidt process?

Green's functions?

Gromov compactness?

Gromov-Witten invariant?

Haar measure on SL_2(R) explicitly with matrix coordinates. Compare with Iwasawa decomposition.

Hadamard three circle theorem?

Hahn-Banach theorem, Banach-Tarski paradox, ultrafilter lemam, countable choice?

Hamilton-Cayley theorem in one sentence using algebraic geometry: true for diagonalizable matrices, which forms a Zariski dense set. (although it is not open, but it contains the open subset of matrices with distinct eigenvalues, this is where it feels perturbative Also, the irreducibility of affine space is assumed.) Compare to A is a square matrix, then it is diagonalizable after perturbation. Finally, as an example of the somewhat mysterious reduction steps in EGA, we can also restate and reprove it for integral domains by base change to the algebraic closure of the function field.

Harmonic conjugates? Cauchy-Riemann's equations and relation with hydrodynamics.

Harnack inequality?

Hausdorff spaces as every net converges to at most one point? Compact Hausdorff space is space where every net accumulates at some point and converges to at most one point? See Folland for nets and filters. Make this make sense?

Helly's theorem

Helmholtz decomposition

Hensel lemma?

Hilbert's Weak Nullstellensatz shows that the “traditional points” are present as points of the scheme, and this carries over to any algebraically closed field. If the field is not algebraically closed, the traditional points are glued together into clumps by Galois conjugation, as in real affine line and the affine line over $F_p$. How does this even work?

Hodge index theorem

Hodge numbers?

Hodge theorem?

Hodge theorem? Compact Kahler manifold? Hodge structure? It is related to de Rham complex, de Rham homology and cohomology (see Lurie lecture)?

Holomorphic sphere?

Holomorphy?

Homotopy excision? How does homotopy excision (a result about cohomologies coming from quotient groups) prove the Freudenthal suspension theorem?

Homotopy long exact sequence of fibration?

How are analytic functions related to the completions of a commutative ring?

How are anima a generalisation of homotopy types and infinity groupoids? What are they even? https://www.reddit.com/r/math/comments/ni8a7l/why_are_infinitygroupoids_the_right_notion_of/

How are anima a generalisation of homotopy types? Now it is worse ncatlab uses it as a synonym for infinity groupoid.

How are resolutions both an exact sequence of modules and objects in an abelian category?

How are truncations the Postnikov sections, and why are these important? How can Postnikov sections with (-1)-type implies propositions?

How are types obedient to partial equivalence relations?

How are types of sheaves intuitionistic in nature? https://studenttheses.uu.nl/bitstream/handle/20.500.12932/22151/Applications%20of%20sheaves%20to%20intuitionistic%20logic.pdf?sequence=2

How are vector bundles equivalent to class groups? https://www.math.uchicago.edu/~may/VIGRE/VIGRE2008/REUPapers/Clarkson.pdf

How do I compute homologies my head with practice exercises?

How do holomorphic function in complex analysis related to regular functions in algebraic geometry?

How do you get Lebesgue decomposition theorem to get the Radon-Nikodym derivative? When do you notice something is combined. Why do you need all decomposition theorems to get what you want?

How do you internalise the logic of dependent products?

How do you use Kan extensions to do all of (classical) category theory quickly in your head? I have notes for this.

How does Varadhan construct a counterexample for moments not determining the function?

How does a locally compact field be defined by some norm?

How does an Householder matrix work? What motivates a Householder matrix. It is meant to be a transform that does some reflection. See Wikipedia.

How does one do Joukowdsky transforms rigorously?

How does one draw the ring of dual numbers?

How does one easily prove Carathedory’s theorem?

How does one generalises preserves, creates, and reflection of limits generally. See Page 90 of Emily Riehl's Category Theory in Context.

How does one make it easy to define frames particularly the distribution of joints and meets apart from using infimum and supremum?

How does one prove that the continuum hypothesis is independent are ZFC?

How does one understand QR factorisation?

How does the classification of finitely generated modules generalise the Jordan normal form? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/88687/eigenvalues-for-matrices-over-general-rings

How does unitary matrices be easier to compute (conjugate transpose) and why does it have better stability properties?

How is Gelfand duality related to the Stone Weierstrass theorem and how is Peter Johnstones book talking about this? See ncat page on Stone spaces.

How is tensor product related to smash product? https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/smash+product

How is the Scott topology and semicontinuity not related?

How is the smash product an adjoint to the mapping space?

How is variance equal to power for maximal differential entropy under average power constraint?

How on earth do you work snake lemmas, five lemmas, magic diagrams. Do not understand motivation? https://angyansheng.github.io/notes/homological-algebra-i

How to do classification of order of groups?

How to maximise the use of the Chinese remainder theorem? Fast Fourier transform?

How to remember the conditions for central limit theorem?

How to understand Lie’s three laws? It is apparently some realisation from some functor but it is not really clear?

How to understand Schur's lemma defined using endomorphism ring? Simple modules? Division rings? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schur%27s_lemma

How to understand dependent product projections?        

How to understand pullbacks and monomorphisms intuitively in the subobject classifier definition?

How to understand rings as homomorphisms from a ring to the endomorphism ring of an abelian group?

Hurewicz fibrations?

Hurewicz theorem?

I also do not really understand the motivation for all the effort to form the difference equations for coefficient matrices. I understand these are important in practice, but I do not understand useful about this viewpoint and how to keep in your head.

I do not fully understand Ito stuff (Ito integral, isometry, calculus) and why is it so potent.

I do not understand Jacobson rings as a convenience definition.

I do not understand positive definite matrices. Wy are they the thing that round off the course in linear algebra for Strang's book?

I do not understand the inverse limit completion of the ring of integers modulo prime powers. See profinite completion and p-adic integers.

I do not understand total space and the space of sections in the context of homotopy type theory. I always find it hard to imagine the space of functions. Is cobordism?

I do not understand why do we consider the Cauchy integral formula for the coefficients of the Laurent series.

I don't fully understand the renormalisation group approach to derive the central limit theorem, decimation in particular to force the limit of all other cumulatnts to tend towards zero is rather interesting.

I don't understand the Ito and Stratnovich interpretation?

I don’t understand how a copresheaf expresses quantity where a presheaf expresses space by probing. What Ncat did was to express it as some internal hom between sets of quantities and values then gets the copresheaf as some covariant functor from copresheaves to set. The contravariant functor is the spectrum operations, from presheaves to set, the covariant functor is the copresheafification (whatever that is) https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/space+and+quantity

I don’t understand the definition of N-homomorphism between N-algebras.

I don’t understand the two cases in the proof of the Lebesgue-Radon-Nikodym derivative theorem?

I don’t understand the visualisation and contrast between the topological and the type-theoretic induction principles.

I don’t understand transport in homotopy type theory?

I don’t understand why how symmetric monoidal tensor products as left adjoints of internal hom and internal Hom as right adjoints for symmetric monoidal tensor products must be the correct valid notion.

I read somewhere that there is perfectoid spaces are a third group of all but I cannot remember?

I still don't understand how nilradical form the intersection of all prime ideals of a commutative ring. This is not intuitive to me. Prove it again, proof is available.

I still don’t understand cohomology other than it is some sort of dual to homology, it is a generalisation of an abelian group, it has some coefficients.

Motivation for normalisers? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centralizer_and_normalizer

I understand why do we care about derived functors (enough injectives), but how to we understand it? Scholze uses it to give a very clean definition of etale cohomology and what does this even mean? Example: cohomology is the right defined functor from the “abelian space” (specifically spectra) and getting an abelian group. Note that abelian groups are a fully faithful inclusion into cohomology. What does it mean by enough injectives? Sheaf cohomology is the right derived functor to the global section functor? Answer; this is Grothendieck’s genius to use a functor for any coefficient. More specifically any functor as coefficients.

Identity theorem?

If we have a Markov process, what are the possibilities of the generators and the translation density? Example: Wiener uses Laplace operator, with heat kernel.

Implications of Riesz representation theorem?

Implicit function theorem?  Versus inverse function theorem?

Implicit function theorem? See ncat and Lee for more information. Also the relation between it and functional analysis?

Induced representations: contrast between tensor products of G modules and vector valued functions on g?

Inertia group?

Inseparable extension example and proof?

Instantaneous code? Uniquely decodable code? Huffman code? Prefix code?

Integral extension?

Intermediate value theorem? Revisit.

Intersection of affines covered by finite number of affines i.e. QCQS lemma?

Intuition behind examples of filtered category?

Intuition for Cauchy sequences?

Inverse function theorem?

Is it possible to make the duality between embeddings and quotients more explicit?

Is there a compilation of all varieties drawings from Mumford book that somebody has drawn out with clear explanations?

Is there a definition of left and right adjoints in terms of operators (not categorical)?

Is there a simpler definition of symmetric ring spectra that I can fit in my head AND DO COMPUTATIONS WITH? I don’t like the fact I have to vaguely point at some equivariance under symmetric groups, and then define spectra with stable homotopy suspension colimit thing.

Is there some sort of representation theory going on when one decomposes it into the Sym and Alt for matrices.

Ito's lemma

Jacobian variety?

Jordan curve theorem

KAM theorem?

KAM theory? Quasiperiodic orbits?

Kodaira vanishing theorem

Koenig's theorem?

Krasner's lemma?

Laurent series versus Laurent polynomials?

Lax-Milgram theorem

Learn cup product properly in Hatcher. Hatcher is unreadable to me still...

Lebesgue theorem?

Lefschetz fixed point theorem?

Lefschetz theorem

Lempel-Ziv coding?

Limit defined up to isomorphism in 1 category? But limit defined only up to equivalence in infinity category?

Linear (Cauchy functional equation) but fails homogeneity, don't understand where this fails axiom of choice.

Liouville theorem?

List of functionals? Energy intuition?

Littlewood-Richardson rule?

Local field?

Local limit theorem

Locales are the right adjoints of topological spaces by the functor or the opposite category of frames? Is this correct?

Localisation functor? Why is it called that? See Gabriel and Zisman's construction of this.

Localisation of quotients and taking of quotients of localisations are equivalent, and they both give a residue field. the geometric interpretation of this?

Lp space duality?

Lp space duality?

Lucchesi younger theorem?

Major comparison theorems?

Make sense of essentially algebraic as set^C with C lex, coherent topoi as first order, geometric as topoi.

Make sense of the exponent axes and what these represent: https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2010/03/11/a-type-diagram-for-function-spaces/ https://mathoverflow.net/questions/17736/way-to-memorize-relations-between-the-sobolev-spaces/17906#17906

Make the definition of a class using logical predicates make sense (or distinguish it from a set somehow).

Make the weak Hilbert Nullstellensatz in terms of partitions of unity make sense?

Maschke's theorem proof in groups and in modules and in category theory?

Maximal torii? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maximal_torus

Maximum modulus principle? Why should I care about it.

Mayer-Vietoris in different contexts.

Minimax theorem for word length?

Modular forms? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modular_form See Indra's pearls.

Moduli spaces, spaces corresponding to object? Represent a contravariant functor of interest. This usually means that they represent a contravariant functor that we're interested in. For example, Vakil constructs the Grassmannian as a scheme that represents the contravariant functor that takes a scheme $X$ to the set of  surjective morphisms $O_X^n \rightarrow E$, where $E$ is locally free of rank $k$. Make this make sense?

Monotone convergence theorem

Monotone reference machine?

Morava K theory?

Morita equivalence?

Morphisms on a base?

Motivation behind distinguished open sets?

Motivation for valuation rings? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/462574/learn-about-valuations-valuation-rings-value-group

Motivation of echelon matrices?

Mountain Pass theorem: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mountain_pass_theorem

Multi-access channel?

Ncatlab definition of locally presentable in terms of reflective localisation

Need a clearer (more concise) proof that K^d is complete. L^p spaces are complete. c0(K) is complete.

Need a clearer proof that L^infty(K) is not separable. Need a clear proof that L^p(K) is separable.

Need to motivate the achievability lemmas: typical average, joint typicality, packing, covering, conditional typicality?

Newform? the Atkin-Lehner theory?

Nice generalisation of contour integrals using partial orders?

Nike's lemma? Spec A and Spec B are affine open subschemes of a scheme X, then intersection of Spec A and Spec B are the union of open sets are simultaneously open subschemes of Spec A and Spec B.

Nilpotence theorem of CW complexes.

Nisnevich descent, etale descent, ??? You have some sort of topology you want that is not like the typical topology, since they are somewhat disconnected, certain glueing exists. This motivates these forms of descent, topologies…

Noether's theorem? Symplectic version.

Noetherian normalisation?

Non-constant function between two compact Riemann surfaces, how is it related to Galois theory?

Nonsingular projective algebraic curve?

Not all open sets in totally disconnected space is also closed. Counterexample?

Notes on field of fractions of half line functions to give distribution theory?

Nowhere zero flows?

Occam algorithm intuition?

Oka's principle?

Open mapping theorem proof. I don't understand it. Find a better proof of the open mapping theorem. Ideally helping in defining some useful construct to do the proof, that uses linearity, (convexity), surjectivity. It does not make sense because I have some balls centred, then do some scaling of the balls. I also do not understand where surjectivity is used. Admit you don't want to work on it.

Optimal transport?

Orbit stabiliser to Sylow theorems see Silverman.

Order of the complex Fourier transform?

Ornstein-Uhlenbledk?

Ostrokowski's theorem?

PBW theorem, Poincare-Birkhoff-Witt theorem?

Packing lemma motivation? Multi source channels?

Paley-Wiener theorem

Pell equation

Perfect graph?

Perron-Frobenius on ergodicity of Markov chains, PageRank? See stochastic analysis book.

Peter-Weyl theorem

Petersen graph as standard counterexample?

Phragmen-Lindelof theorem?

Pivot variables, free variables, combinations of special solutions?

Plancherel formula?

Polynomial: element in a polynomial ring. Vector: element in vector space Object: element in some structure. Is there a formal word for this?

Portmanteau theorem

Positive mass theorem

Postnoikov tower and how is it related to a Whitehead tower?

Prime elements versus irreducible elements?

Prime number theorem?

Principal ideal domain corresponds to the spectrum looking like an affine line. How is this related to Z as PID from classification of surfaces?

Principally polarised abelian variety?

Problem and dual problem? CCCP?

Profinite space: inverse limit of finite space gives subspace topology of the product? the subspace topology and what does this mean?

Proof of subgroups of free groups being free using covering space of wedges of circles?

Proof that infinitely many primes split completely in an arbitrary extension of number fields using Dedekind zeta function with pole at 1. Let L be the Galois closure of K over Q. If l splits completely over L then it splits completely over Q. The ideals of prime norm in L are, apart from the (finitely many) primes that ramify over Q, the prime ideal factors of the rational primes that split completely in L over Q. But, from the Dedekind zeta function having a pole at s=1, there must be infinitely many prime ideals of prime norm in L. So infinitely many rational primes split completely in L, and so also in K.

Prove all equivalent definitions of a normal subgroup.

Prove that finite fields and their extensions only have trivial norm?

Prove that precompactness gives the equivalent definition as having all Cauchy subsequences converge.

Prove the equivalence of Zorn's lemma, the well-ordering principle, and the Axiom of Choice. Consider: https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/629464/statements-equivalent-to-the-axiom-of-choice

Prove the equivalent definitions of a Baire space.

Prove the existence of a unique torsion-free metric connection on a pseudo-Riemannian manifold. (aka the Levi-Civita connection). Prove also a unique metric connection with any given vector-valued 2-form, the proof is in the same spirit.

Prove the properties of the spectrum of self linear operators.

Prove the uniqueness of function when in agreement on dense subset.

Quasi coherent has enough projective?

Quasi-isomorphism in derived category?

Quillen’s small object argument?

Quiver? I learnt that it is a generalisation of set, and you can see this is a definition of a magmaoid.

Ramsey's theorem?

Rayleigh quotient how it works?

Reals constructed by Dedekind cuts, not very clear.

Rellich theorem?

Representation theorems?

Rescaled variable, Levy reminds me of some Lp space?

Residue theorem?

Resultants?

Ribet’s theorem? This one is quite crazy.

Ricci curvature?

Riemann mapping theorem? Why is the key step that the limit is onto has same characteristic as functions taht approach it?

Riemann-Hurwitz?

Riemann-Lebesgue?

Riemann-Roch theorem?

Riesz potential?

Riesz theorem

Riesz-Markov representation theorem?

Rouche's theorem?

Sard's theorem

Scale parameter of a distribution?

Schwartz's lemma? Mobius transformations to eliminate condition of f(0) = 0.

Schwarz class preserved under Fourier transform, how does Fourier transform trades regularity for decay?

Scott topology?

Segre embedding?

Seifert-van Kampen theorem?

Self duality of L^2 spaces

Self-adjoint vs essentially self-adjoint Symmetric operator wtih self adjoint closure (what does closure mean), operator with unique self adjoint extension (motivation?)

Semidecidable logic as some sort algebra does not make sense to me as an analogy to topological space, shouldnt it be one counter example to disprove in finite time? Then looking at many examples to prove in infinite time? Or is this the converse?

Semisimple Lie groups and Lie algebras?

Shape operator? Eigenvalues? Give curvature?

Sheaf of distinguished opens is isomorphic to A_f, see Hartshorne Prop II 2.2.

Shoenfield's absoluteness theorem? https://jaydaigle.net/blog/more-on-the-axiom-of-choice/

Show that homotopy equivalence are quasi-isomorphisms? See Weibel Chapter 10.4.

Show this: same vanishing locus gives same radical i.e. V_pr(I) = V_pr(J) != 0 implies radical(I) = radical(J)

Simple examples of function spaces?

Simpler definition of symmetric ring spectra that I can fit in my head AND DO COMPUTATIONS WITH? I don’t like the fact I have to vaguely point at some equivariance under symmetric groups, and then define spectra with stable homotopy suspension colimit thing.

Singular integrals

Singularity theory?

Skorokhod’s representation theorem?

Sobolev embedding theorem? Missing gaps: test function, frequency scale, Lorentz norms, Lebesgue space as s = 0, regularity parameter, uncertainty principle in Fourier analysis, Plancherel's theorem, singular integrals, Holder spaces: https://terrytao.wordpress.com/2009/04/30/245c-notes-4-sobolev-spaces/

Sobolev immersion theorem?

Sobolev norm?

Spectral theorem for self adjoint operators, what else can you milk out of it?

Spectral theorem? See all possibilites of a spectral theorem.

Spherical harmonics?

Splitting an idempotent?

Stability theorems?

Stein spaces?

Stoke's theorem?

Stone's theorem

Stone-Weierstrass theorem

Strong typicality? Orlitsky-Roche definition? Why so significant?

Structure theory of lie groups to prove fundamental theorem of algebra? see also 3-galois theory, Liouville, winding number versions of these proofs?

Subdirect product?

Subspace interaction theorem proof? it used for?

Supercommutator? Supercommutative ring to correspond to sheaves? See Gelfand and Manin's Homological Algebra. Use examples of Grassmann algebra.

Suspension isomorphisms: key ingredient in Mayer Vietoris sequence and long exact sequences? Why?

Svarc-Milnor lemma? Cocompact, properly discontinuous, quasi-isometric, word metric?

Sylow's relation to Cartan's existence theorem for maximal tori?

Symmetric powers of vector space?

Symmetry of second derivatives?

Tail decay?

Taylor's theorem

Tchebotarev density?

Tensor contraction?

The group law on an elliptic curve is associative using Riemann surfaces?

Theorems for rate distortion function? Calculations?

There is ramification theory of valuations, unramified morphism to define etale morphisms, aand tameness, local fields, algebraic extensions of rationals. What are these?

Thom class?

Tietze extension theorem?

Torelli theorem? How is this concretely applied? See mapping class groups.

Torus knots?

Torus obstructions?

Trace theorem? Sobolev spaces? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2091716/understanding-the-trace-theorem-for-sobolev-spaces

Trace theorems in Sobolev spaces?

Try to understand page 60 of Eisenbud later. Specifically, how prime ideals can be thought of more deeply.

Tverberg theorem

Tychnoff? Urysohns lemma? Tietze extension theorem?

Uniform vs nonuniform complexity classes?

Uniformization theorem?

Uniquely decodable code?

Uniqueness theorem? This one seems super vague.

Universal coefficient theorem

Upper topology?

Use quadratic reciprocity to show primes splitting in Q(sqrt(-23)).

V-isotypic component?

Vector bundles correspondence to locally free projective modules? (Serre Swan theorem!)

Veroneus map?

Volume comparison theorem?

Von Neumann algebra vs C* algebra?

Ways to prove ring homomorphisms.

We can use a compact topological group like a circle to show how symmetry is related to groups. Why must lines be straight through center for a group law?

Weak ergodicity? Strong ergodicity? See Weinan, Tiejun, and Vanden-Eijnden.

Weak star topology?

Well-quasi ordering?

Weyl algebra?

Weyl's unitary trick?

What are (-1)-types and (-1)-truncated logic? They are the correct way to generalise mere propositions, if we use propositions as types the law of the excluded middle fails see https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/mere+proposition

What are Christoffel symbols and why do people commit effort to compute them?

What are Hopf surfaces? Complex analytic K3 surface? Complex algebraic K3 surfaces? Why should I care about them?

What are a list of special functors in homological algebra, Ext, Tor, Ind???

What are adjunctions in homotopy type theory? https://arxiv.org/pdf/2008.12433

What are binding constructs? What are object classifiers?

What are covariant derivatives? parallel transport in this context?

What are covering sieves? What are Grothendieck constructions? How did Scholze define the plus construction?

What are eliminators and constructors in type theory?

What are finite limits, Cartesian closed, and subobject classifiers?

What are function spaces that you can fit in your head? This is very difficult, so start with simple examples of function spaces and work with those instead?

What are inductive systems and why should I care about formal filtered colimits? Ncat says that large categories are equivalent to inductive categories and are hence accessible in some sense of the word?

What are lifts and where does the duality of projective resolutions and injective resolutions come from?

What are modalities and why is it important?

What are modalities? Why should I care about modalities? See Egbert Rijke's articles on it.

What are projective objects and projective resolutions?

What are projective resolutions?

What are representable functors as upper sets or posets?

What are semi simple Lie groups and Lie algebras?

What are sifted colimits? Why care about sifted categories?

What are some nasty examples when we fail to consider regular or smooth schemes (other than obvious nilpotent stuff)

What are spin groups and how are they related to physics?

What are the analogies of higher inductive types with homotopy theory?

What are the equivalences of dense and how should I prove them?

What are the key properties of Tor and Ext and how do you remember them?

What are the reflective subcategories involved in localisation of commutative rings?

What are universe truncations and how are they used to construct cardinals?

What concept classes fail Occam's learning to probably approximately correct learning?

What do we know about the factorisation of matrices (LU factorisation) from what we know in commutative algebra, and algebraic geometry?

What does it mean by a base change being the pullback of a morphism of fields?

What does it mean for Pontryagin duality to give examples of compact commutative group since they are dual to abelian discrete groups?

What does it mean for a Cartesian closed category to be closed by exponentiation? Exponentiation is some sort of function from the power to the base right?

What does it mean for a first order languages? Sort, terms, and formulas?

What does it mean for loop space and suspensions to be adjoints (suspension left adjoint, loop space right adjoint)?

What does it mean for something to be accessible?

What does it mean for the Fourier transform to turn multiples of powers of x into derivatives? Is it a functor? How is this related to the distribution theory?

What does it mean for the set of ideals in a ring to be a lattice?

What does it mean for types to be Kan complexes and dependent types to be a Kan Fibration? Are dependent types some sort of function?

What does locally Cartesian closed have to do with dependent types!

What exactly does it mean for the characteristic function to be the expectation of some complex exponential?

What matrices can you solve exp(A) = B?

What motivates local presentability?

What problem did introducing the symmetric group with equivariance solve? Is it related to Cayley’s theorem and Yoneda stuff?

When you're localizing a quotient you localize at the image of the set of elements you're inverting? What does this mean

Which distributions best model which problems? Create a list.

Whitney extension theorem?

Why ar proper curves projective? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2629341/proper-curves-over-some-field-are-

Why are Galois extensions normal and separable? Why is this the right definition?

Why are finite boolean algebras isomorphic to power set algebras? What are power set algebras?

Why are finitely generated abelian groups a direct sum of the cyclic groups? the definition of finitely generated abelian groups?

Why are symmetric spectra pointed? Why define some equivariance with symmetric group?

Why are taking resolutions the key step before defining a functor so that you can get long exact sequences?

Why are there no analogs of the Lebsegue measure?

Why can pushouts be used to construct suspension, join, cones, wedges? These can be done in classical homotopy theory?

Why can’t constructs in commutative algebra like rings, ideals (functor from group conjugation), be directly expressed in terms of functors? https://math.uchicago.edu/~amathew/chthreeimportantfunctors.pdf

Why care about Artinian ring? Situations involving finitely many prime ideals, or finitely many points ofn a scheme, reduced to a statement about Artinian ring.

Why care about constructivity?

Why care about reduced rings?

Why classification of compact, connected and simply connected Lie group is so simple?

Why do matrix exponentials converge? Something to do with completeness of spaces?

Why do we are about formal cofiltered limit of objects in a category, as well as the ind-objects, and pro-objects?

Why do we care about presentability and subobject classifiers in topoi?

Why does checking structured morphisms of schemes require a base change?

Why does one define the product topology with all but finitely many opens in components space are equal to the component space?

Why in the last step in the construction of Tor or Ext do you take homology?

Why is Noetherian normalisation called that?

Why is completion of an abelian group also an abelian group?

Why is defining the opposite category of opens an open problem? It is not really Stone spaces or spatial frames.

Why is it not possible for judgemental equalities to be proven?

Why is resolvent set unbounded on Banach space for bounded operator?

Why is separatedness the condition such that intersection of affines is an affine?

Why is the identity map bounded but non compact unless finite dimension vector spaces? (see example on C([0,1])) A bounded linear operator on separable Hilbert space is noncompact, hint uncountably many eigenvalues, so non separable. And on compactness: think of it as a MUCH stronger property than boundedness.

Why is the identity map bounded but non compact unless finite dimension vector spaces? A bounded linear operator on separable Hilbert space is noncompact, hint uncountably many eigenvalues, so non separable. And on compactness: think of it as a MUCH stronger property than boundedness.

Why is the mapping class group finitely generated by Dehn twists?

Why is the reals are center of ring of quaternions. I guessed it.

Why must Turing machine need to use blanks?

Why must all minimal programs be algorithmically random strings?

Why should I care about Severi Brauer varieties?

Why should I care about the differences between free, projective, flat and torsion free

Wick's theorem

Write sketches of proofs of the metrization theorems.

Zariski constant?

Zariski locally free?

Zariski site, you have a thin single ply of tissue with some notion of gluing, inclusion, lattices? Etale site will have multiply ply, collapse Galois actions together to get some Zariski site. the relation between Galois actions and sites?

addition theorem

ample line bundle?

beta reduction? eta expansion as a judgmental equal principle?

binding structure?

classifying topos?

etale fundamental group?

etale topology, fppf topology? Sites? easy to remember definition of sites other than the fibre product?

exponential?

finite type, finite presentation?

formal, cofiltered limit in the definition of a pro object?

fppf topology? Sites? easy to remember definition of sites other than the fibre product?

frame transfer?

freely distributed lattice?

functional extensionality?

http://www.math.uni-bonn.de/people/schwede/SymSpec-v3.pdf

https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3503v1

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cantor_space

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_statements_independent_of_ZFC Understand how these statements fail.

https://golem.ph.utexas.edu/category/2009/03/firstorder_logical_duality.html How can use ultracategories and ultrafunctors as geometric objects in our head to express the duality between syntax and semantics of first order logic?

https://mathoverflow.net/questions/257885/roadmap-to-hill-hopkins-ravenel/257908#257908

https://mathoverflow.net/questions/301780/entering-to-the-k-theory-realm/301797#301797

https://mathoverflow.net/questions/394054/why-stable-infty-categories/394056#394056

https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/Gelfand+duality Gelfand duality, why do we care about Gelfand duality when others exist? What are some motivating examples of Gelfand duality? It just seems like a broad categorisation example topology to commutative algebra and algebraic geometry to commutative rings. the difference between this and Isbell duality which is also about algebra and geometry? Isbell seems to be about sheafification and form of spectra, whereas Gelfand is more direct and about algebraic structures and some topology/geometry?

https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/Tannaka+duality how can one use the proof of Tannaka duality that groups are represented by automorphisms.

https://ncatlab.org/nlab/show/space+and+quantity How does one understand Isbell duality between space and quantity in terms of topoi?

https://www.math.uchicago.edu/~may/MISC/FiniteSpaces.pdf

https://xorshammer.com/2011/07/09/a-logical-interpretation-of-some-bits-of-topology/ Try to understand Lebesgue covering dimension.

https://youtu.be/PHm4bYziyug?feature=shared I don’t understand Scholze definition of cohomology and why is it easier to use? https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/54752/sheaf-cohomology-what-is-it-and-where-can-i-learn-it Akhil Mathew gives an immediate explanation of this. https://mathoverflow.net/questions/38966/what-is-sheaf-cohomology-intuitively

infinity projective 1 loop space

infinity projective 1 loop space?

lambda in the definition of convex combination. good name?

left exact localisations and why should we care about them?

list of diagram lemmas?

moving lemma?

perfect base field?

presentable and subobject classifier in topos?

quasi coherent sheaf?

smooth scheme?

the Fourier-Mukai transform and why should I care about it?

the Freudenthal suspension theorem and how is it used to define spectra?

the Freudenthal suspension theorem and how is it used to define spectra? Also, what motivated the suspension theorem, it was invented very early in the 1930s.

the McKay correspondence between Dublin diagrams, platonic splits, finite subgroups of the special orthogonal group in three dimensions, finite subgroups of the special unitary group, and the simple Lie group. Why should I care about the McKay correspedoence?

the condition for separability, which is all elements can be approximated arbitrarily by countale collection such that the distance measure for the norm can be done by picking x_j such that d(x_j, x), j is in integers, in the context of Stone duality? I thought about this because Stone duality can be thought of some completion of an experiment in logic.

the conjugation operation for ideals? Is it multiplication on the left giving 0.

the difference between Karmarkar's method and the simplex method? Why is it better?

the difference between a polynomial and a polynomial functions?

the difference between flat and locally free (locally have some basis?)

the difference between geometric fibres and geometrically connected?

the functor that works on opens that is the colimit of open overs on a product open covers over equalisers / descent such that applying this functor on a presheaf gives a separated sheaf, applying this functor again gives sheafification? Also how do we use separated morphisms in the definition.

the homotopy excision theorem and how does it prove the Freudenthal suspension theorem?

the implicit function theorem in differential geometry?

the left adjoint of the random variable functor? It seems to forget some set of real numbers and converts it into outcomes?

the mathematical motivation behind the notion of filtration?

the motivation behind a diagonal morphism, and why should we care about separated morphisms so much it warrants its own functor adjunction?

the motivation for Jaffard domains, and Prufer domains?

the motivation for Landau's function? Why should I care about the maximum order of an element in the symmetric group?

the motivation for residue fields? They say it is the natural generalisation of the codomain / range of a point or the values of each point?

the motivation of Galois conjugate?

the motivation of axiom K?

the relationship between eigenvalue eigenvector equations and the affine line and projective modules?

the relationship between equivalence relations and partition functions?

the relationship between happly, fun ext, and transport?

the relationship between sets and Poincare duality in the definition of the 1 -type?

the relationship between the Wiener process, heat kernel, and Brownian motion?

the syntax and semantics of first order logic? And how does Makkai duality clarify this?

the weak star topology?

unramified morphism?

weakly Kan injective?