Journal

22 March 2025: did a lot of commutative algebra and category theory over March, algebraic geometry no longer look so intimidating, I was thinking about learning it in depth in Matsumura.

2 February 2025: try problems you have totally NO CLUE, sit down and time to solve it.

1 February 2025: finally did some math, learnt more about representable functors, rep theory, geometric group theory and stuff.

19 January 2025: same here, did not do much math this week due to madness.

12 January 2025: did not do much math this week due to sadness.

5 January 2025: algebraic geometry spam, simpler simpler simpler models, where is stumbling block, until can calculate and generalise it until I get to something you want to do. Optimist. Pleasure from small understanding. One tiny tiny thing. Quite optimistic. Push yourself through really hard stuff. Okay so his strategy is basically do the most hard thing you can and tie it to very very basic stuff, links between 6 proofs, better, other approaches, so it becomes natural.

4 January 2025: do all sorts of stuff, work with anything. Push yourself. Big picture AND small stuff. Exercises yourself, challenge, write up stuff you got stuck on. Make a fool of yourself.

1 January 2025: did some cohomology and whatever...

31 December 2024: topology of the functional analysis day. Statement of paper. Main step that you need. Learn and understand the statement of this step or the main two step, or two cases, then you go backwards. Stop when run out of paper and interest. Experience of how much you want to know. Takes practice to find what step you want to understand, what else is technical detail that it is not that important. Try to pin down everything. Achievement focus not helpful. It is creative occupation, do not try to understand everything. Nonlinear process, efficiency is bad, faster later.
 
30 December 2024: functional analysis day

28 December 2024: revised almost all concepts in linear algebra from Strang (no exercises) and also supplemented it by reading more in Horn and Johnson.

27 December 2024: learnt about norms in functional analysis.

24 December 2024: did some linear algebra and appreciated how close it is to other forms of algebra. Prove some little thing that makes you happy, gives you confidence even if it is very small, gives you possibility to go further. Being honest with yourself, push for little understanding. To be honest, I can study by writing what I understand, passion isn't fully in your control. Figuring out what I understand. Studying different kind of math, talk to inspirational people.

22 December 2024: started thinking about the X + Y equal constant problem, then thought about probability some more.

18 December 2024: started again.